hi miss barbecue booty good food and
welcome to boss the basics now the basic
technique we're going to be bossing
today is bread we're going to be doing a
really basic bread if you've never made
bread before this is the recipe for you
we're going to be turning the same dough
into pizza into a basic loaf and into
different types of bread rolls the
ingredients we're going to need for our
bread is some strong white bread flour
some salt some fast action yeast and a
little bit of sugar it's important that
you use strong bread flour because plain
flour has a different gluten content our
plain flour is fine for things like
pizzas and flat breads but for bread for
big loaves of bread you really want
strong bread flour about eight rolls or
four pizzas we want 500 grams one sachet
of yeast now saturated yeast is exactly
seven grams so in that goes I like my
bread to have lots of flavor so for my
basic dough are you to take around
roughly ten grams of salt for 500 grams
of flour so that's about two teaspoons
two level teaspoons if you like things a
bit less salty just do one but you do
need a bit of salt in your bread and
they're just
the touch of sweetness and then a
teaspoon of castor sugar 300 millilitres
of water will give you quite a stiff dog
that's easy to work with and 350 it
could be quite a wet dog that's harder
to work with
I have big red over today so I'm gonna
go somewhere in between I'm gonna do it
though with 320 325 millimeters which is
our basic recipe our recipes are basic
bread rolls so I just need to add fat
know where the mix are both that you can
use wooden spoon for this for structure
I like to take my hands in so it's just
a matter of mixing the dough together
we're not worrying about a meeting at
this stage we're just trying to get all
the ingredients mixed together then
we're going to leave it about 10 minutes
5 minutes straight in there and just mix
and we'll just got ourselves a rough
though now this bit is essential I do
like to leave the dough by 10 to 15
minutes kind of activate the yeast
hydrates the flour
let's ingredients and get to know each
other so I tend to just leave that in
the bowl and then cover it with an
anteater okay so I've go to interpret
and you can start to see all really
started to soften just by leaving it in
ten minutes
and now we are going to need it
now it's impossible to measure the
Incredible Hulk is impossible to only
need by hand
to the surface and and they change the
recipe good old elbow grease for the
next is just a stretch what we want to
do is we're trying to stretch the gluten
in the dough so I can to set my timer
and then give it a good ten minutes so
though it's been kneaded for ten minutes
and we know it's ready because when we
get it into a ball and we press it it
springs back so look stretchy means it's
elastic it means it's good to go so you
know pop that in a bowl about teaspoon
of oil into our bowl and then our dough
goes into the bowl and then we leave
that for an hour or so or until doubled
in size and cover it up with the
Teague's now and leave that for about an
hour so that's what it looks like in our
bowl that's all we're going to cover
that's what we're going to see later and
then this is the one we're gonna be
working with so the first thing we're
gonna make is a basic quite low so our
dough just goes onto our surface it's
absolutely fine to add a little bit of
flour now and then I'm gonna knock you
back a bit knock the air out of it a bit
you could put this in a load of tin but
if you don't have a loaf tin I'm just
going to show you how to make a nice
rounded loaf so you just want to bring
that back round onto itself just on a
floured baking tray and we're going to
pop back somewhere to W the size that's
going to take about 40 minutes it makes
about 8 small rolls six larger rolls you
can tie them into burger buns or hot dog
rolls but the easiest way to divide it
if you don't want to measure each one is
to do it into a sausage like this let's
do this one into six really and then
that's about even I've got a bench knife
but you can use any knife we're going to
go about half way and then each one you
just need to cut into about three if you
want you can weigh them out and then
make sure each one is the same weight
simple bread rolls we just roll them
into balls like this so that's a simple
bed roll then for a hot dog bun a bit
longer so you just roll it onto itself
and it's a matter
just rolling it like this the burger
buns probably want them a bit bigger
than that one we'll take one of the
heart and then you just want them a bit
flatter like this and that's going to
make a nice burger bun you can try doing
a mini baguette really fun of roll that
out to a sausage shape so that again
we're just going to have adapt our dough
about and then we delete those for about
40 minutes the pizza are very similar to
our rolls
we're just could not just going to knock
the air out of it ever so slightly and
we're going to cut it into four so and
then just as if we're making big rolls
we're just going to roll into a nice
round and each one of these it's going
to be a decent size pieces
so that's four pizzas out of the mix so
just something thin if the rules before
we're just going to roll them into tight
balls and these are going to be
inside today we have basic bread bread
rolls pizza dough my first lap our bread
rolls baked hi about 40 minutes they
will double in size this is our burger
bun sir because it's about the bun
we're gonna claim it with a bit of egg
and then dust it with the few sesame
seeds like so then I'm going to leave
this one and this one as it is split
this one down the middle box with little
bit of flour not essential nice
this one down the middle just need a
shot my spit that down the middle and
that will split open and it cooks I'm
gonna pop those in our oven so I often
temperature is on to tear the flour just
about 2:30 for this one nothing more
than a dusting of flour
and we'll just do a couple of slices
like that and they just go open up cook
say and again that goes in our oven
that's gonna take a bit longer that
maybe 35 to 40 minutes so now on to our
pizza dough you can roll it with a
rolling pin but you get a much nicer
pizza if you use your fingers to stretch
the dough out and that's how you get the
nice crust to it stretching the dough
try not to tear it I've just got some
tomato passata which I've seasoned with
a bit of olive oil and some salt and
pepper which has been doing a classic
margarita cubes mozzarella but you can
use any cheese you want cheddar works
well mozzarella is authentic and a small
drizzle of olive oil and that's gonna go
in a really hot oven for about 12
minutes and then we're gonna have a very
basic pizza like all pizza you can top
that
however you like so we have a blue below
our bread rolls and you know bread is
cooked when you tap it on the base and
it sounds fuller and we have our pizza
all cooked from the same basic printer
this has been foster basics I'm Barney
thank you ever so much for watching
[Music]